## Exercise 1.26

> Louis Reasoner is having great difficulty doing Exercise 1.24. His fast-prime? test seems to run more slowly than his prime? test. Louis calls his friend Eva Lu Ator over to help. When they examine Louis’s code, they find that he has rewritten the expmod procedure to use an explicit multiplication, rather than calling square:
>
> ```racket
> (define (expmod base exp m)
>   (cond ((= exp 0) 1)
>         ((even? exp)
>          (remainder
>           (* (expmod base (/ exp 2) m)
>              (expmod base (/ exp 2) m))
>           m))
>         (else
>          (remainder
>           (* base
>              (expmod base (- exp 1) m))
>           m))))
> ```
>
> “I don’t see what difference that could make,” says Louis. “I do.” says Eva. “By writing the procedure like that, you have transformed the Θ(logn) process into a Θ(n) process.” Explain.

## Solution

Again, very good question. This was original procedure:

```racket
(define (expmod base exp m)
  (cond ((= exp 0) 1)
        ((even? exp) (remainder (square (expmod base (/ exp 2) m)) m))
        (else (remainder (* base (expmod base (- exp 1) m)) m))))
```

So they are basically the same, the only difference is using `square`. Let's see how `square` procedure looks like:

```racket
(define (square x) (* x x))
```

If I understand correctly, when evaluating square, it first should calculate result of the `x`, in our example it is recursive call of `expmod`. So basically in original procedure we wait until all expmod will return number, and only after that we just multiplying numbers.

On the other hand in new version of `expmod`, it called two times, so doing twice more work. But I dont see why it goes from log n to n.

Ah, so it doesnt doubles work, it grows exponentially, _each_ call makes 2 calls. So it become Θ(log 2^n). and log 2^n is n

logb(x) = y
b^y = x

log2(2^n) = n

So it's basically default math definition of logarithm. Cool
